 Kazuo Ishiguro’s talk On “The GuardianNews”when he won the Nobel Prize in Literature 2017 


“You’dthink someone would tell me first but none of us had heard anything,” saidIshiguro, who had been sitting at his kitchen table at home in Golders Green inLondon about to have brunch, when he got the call from his agent.
“Itwas completely not something I expected, otherwise I would have washed my hairthis morning,” he said with a laugh. “It was absolute chaos. My agent phoned tosay it sounded like they had just announced me as the Nobel winner, but there’sso much fake news about these days it’s hard to know who or what to believe soI didn’t really believe it until journalists started calling and lining upoutside my door.”
“Thisis a very weird time in the world, we’ve sort of lost faith in our politicalsystem, we’ve lost faith in our leaders, we’re not quite sure of our values,and I just hope that my winning the Nobel prize contributes something thatengenders good will and peace,” he said. “ It reminds us of how international
 the world is, and we all have to contributethings from our different corners of the world.”
“Partof me feels like an imposter and part of me feels bad that I’ve got this beforeother living writers,” said Ishiguro. “Haruki Murakami, Salman Rushdie,Margaret Atwood, Cormac McCarthy, all of them immediately came into my head andI just thought wow, this is a bit of a cheek for me to have been given thisbefore them.
“Andbecause I’m completely delusional, part of me feels like I’m too yo“You’d thinksomeone would tell me first but none of us had heard anything,” said Ishiguro,who had been sitting at his kitchen table at home in Golders Green in Londonabout to have brunch, when he got the call from his agent..”
He said: “I’mhoping it doesn’t mark some kind of end. I’ve had to battle a lot of my writinglife between the demands to be a public celebrity author and finding the timeand space to do the real work,So I’m hoping the work itself just continues andis no different to where it was yesterday.
“Ijust hope I don’t get lazy or complacent, I hope my work won’t change. And Ihope that younger readers aren’t put off by the Nobel. I have GCSE peoplereading my books and I’m very proud to have that younger audience.”

